Welcome back it's time to finally make this profile update work and connect it to our Bacchante.
Let's go back to our Front-End and in our profile.
Yes this two a few things.
First I want to make sure that whenever we update our input here we also update the state of our app
so going back once again I'm going to do a new method here and change this stateless function into a
class component.
Now I could just create the function out here but I like using class components or class declaration
whenever we have other methods that we want to use.
So class extends or a class profile
extends re-act dot component.
This is going to have a render
let's bring all of this inside the Rander.
I'm just going to minimize this so we can see a better it's a lot better.
And we also want to have a constructor vowel C props.
Super props and here will say that this thought state and this is going to be interesting and we're
going to talk about this a little bit.
I'm going to have Neame equal to this Daut props dot user dot name.
And if you're wondering why we do props for constructor and super and sometimes we don't.
Well if you ever want to use this stop props inside of the constructor.
This is why you need to do and we are in this case so that's why we're doing this.
All right so we have user name.
We also have H that is props start user dot page and we also have Pat this stop prop's dot user dot
Pat All right what am I doing here.
Why are we creating a state when these are already props.
Why not just update the state where these things actually exist.
And if you remember when we go to APT.
Yes.
If we scroll all the way up to our state well we already have all the user information here.
Why don't we just update this and have an event in profile that triggers up to render.
And here I want to demonstrate some good practices of thinking in terms of react and how it works you
see with forms there's a lot of instances where I can't just have a user just keep typing keep typing
keep typing and that causes a revenger because state is being updated and every time we update on change
an input it renders renders we renderers we renders the component and all the components underneath
it.
Now because app is that our top level as soon as we update the state is going to render everything underneath
And that's just a waste.
And with form this is good practice that is if you have a form have a state that the form keeps and
as soon as the user clicks submit or does some sort of an action that is important.
Then we update the state so that we keep all the state updates as the users typing within here and only
update the general big state that is in the top dog.
Yes.
After the user has confirmed that.
All right.
This is my name.
This is age.
This is Pat and we don't have to update sayt every time they make a mistake for example.
All right.
Now that we got that out of the way let's handle what we call a on form change and this on form change
is going to accept an event and this is just typical event handling that we do with react.
I can do it if steamy here but just for fun let's just do a switch statement that doesn't event dot
target dot name.
And this is going to handle based on the name of the target.
And if you remember we scroll down.
We've given inputs different names user age user name user or pet.
So based on those inputs I can say let's minimize this just to look cleaner.
I'm going to say that if case is user name in that case I want you to update this dot set.
St.
with name to equal the event dot target dot value.
And we can break their otherwise with case user page.
In that case well of this set state the
event that target value
again break.
And then finally our last case we'll do a case user Pat this thoughts at state
to be Pat equaling whatever the event target dot value is.
Who then will obviously do a break and will always add a default that just simply returns
not deterrence returns.
All right let's say this.
And we have a few areas here and we'll see what we've done.
User is not defined.
User is not defined well because we need to make sure that within the Rander we can open it within the
render we're using the user data entry so let's do a concert
user from the start props.
Let's save all right.
And we have a few things we have returns Whoops.
Swish them and make sure I fix that.
And then we also have toggle motile is not defined.
Again we need to make sure that we now within the toggle modal call this the props or toggle motile
and this dog props dot toggle motile because it's not a stateless function like we had it before we
save.
All right.
Everything is passing if we go back to our app sign in with our good friend a sign an and we go to the
profile update the name open up the console.
All right.
Nowhere's that's good.
But wouldn't it be nice if we'd type here and this name also gets updated.
And remember we're in our own state here before we actually hit save.
We haven't really updated the state in the apt.
Yes but within the form will be nice to be able to change the user name to see how it displays so we
can do that by going back to our profile.
Let's make this a little bit smaller.
And now the user name here that we use can instead be this dot state DOT user.
Let's save this go back have to sign and once again go to your profile.
Type something.
But now we see that we don't have the user name
and silly me.
It's not user it's name member remember our state just has name age impact.
Let's save.
And then the final thing we want to do is actually call this on form change event.
Now where should we call that.
Well for each input we can just say that there is an on change that takes this dot on form change event
again.
Just gonna copy and paste this to all the inputs
let's save and let's see if this finally works sign in again because we do that all the time.
Seinen view profile.
Start typing.
Look at that.
Our event is being fired.
We're never updating the app state.
We're only rendering just this little tiny portion that we need to.
But as soon as I click save I want to make sure that this name gets updated.
So let's finish this off by doing a post request with this information that we have and the form state.
See in the next one.
Bobby.